gRPC storage plugin docs (#3047)
cortexproject/cortex: docs/guides/grpc-storage-plugin.md

---
title: "gRPC storage plugin"
linkTitle: "gRPC storage plugin"
weight: 3
slug: grpc-based-plugin
---

_This feature is currently experimental and is only supported for Chunks storage._

> A gRPC based server, which will implement the methods required by the chunk-store. All the configuration required by the storage back-end will be configured in the cortex configuration file or using the flags, leaving just the gRPC server end-point as the only config required by the gRPC Clients that live in the Cortex Chunk store package. This allows the user to run the storage system as a sidecar container or as an independent service also to scale according to their needs.

Reviewer: I rephrased a bit, adding an introduction. What do you think?

```suggestion
Cortex chunks storage supports a **gRPC-based plugin system** to use alternative backends for the index and chunks store.

A store plugin is a gRPC-based server which implements the methods required by the index and chunks store. Cortex chunks storage schema is then configured to use the plugin as backend system and gRPC will be used to communicate between Cortex and the plugin.

For example, if you're deploying your Cortex cluster on Kubernetes, the plugin would run as a sidecar container of your Cortex pods and the Cortex's `-grpc-store.server-address` should be configured to the endpoint exposed by the sidecar plugin (eg. `localhost:<port>`).
```

### How it works

> In the cortex configuration file, add ```store``` and ```object_store``` as ```grpc-store``` and configure storage with grpc server address I.e address to the gRPC server which implements the cortex chunk store methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the cortex configuration file, add `store` and `object_store` as `grpc-store` and configure storage with plugin server endpoint (ie. the address to the gRPC server which implements the cortex chunk store methods).
```

```
schema:
  configs:
  - from: 2019-07-29
    store: grpc-store
    object_store: grpc-store
    schema: v10
    index:
      prefix: index_
      period: 168h
    chunks:
      prefix: chunk_
      period: 168h

storage:
  grpc_store: 
    # gRPC server address
    server_address: localhost:6666
```

> For reference these are the gRPC based chunk store implementation for Mongo and Mysql:

Reviewer: I would move this to a dedicated paragraph `## Community plugins`

1. [gRPC based Cortex chunk store for Mongo](https://github.com/VineethReddy02/cortex-mongo-store)

> 2. [gRPC based Cortex chunk store for Mysql](https://github.com/VineethReddy02/cortex-mongo-store)

Reviewer: Links to Mongo, while should link to MySQL

---
title: "gRPC storage plugin"
linkTitle: "gRPC storage plugin"
weight: 3
slug: grpc-based-plugin
---

_This feature is currently experimental and is only supported for Chunks storage._

> Cortex chunks storage supports a **gRPC-based plugin system** to use an alternative backends for the index and chunks store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cortex chunks storage supports a **gRPC-based plugin system** to use alternative backends for the index and chunks store.
```

A store plugin is a gRPC-based server which implements the methods required by the index and chunks store. Cortex chunks storage schema is then configured to use the plugin as backend system and gRPC will be used to communicate between Cortex and the plugin.
For example, if you're deploying your Cortex cluster on Kubernetes, the plugin would run as a sidecar container of your Cortex pods and the Cortex's `-grpc-store.server-address` should be configured to the endpoint exposed by the sidecar plugin (eg. `localhost:<port>`).

### How it works

In the cortex configuration file, add `store` and `object_store` as `grpc-store` and configure storage with plugin server endpoint (ie. the address to the gRPC server which implements the cortex chunk store methods).

```
schema:
  configs:
  - from: 2019-07-29
    store: grpc-store
    object_store: grpc-store
    schema: v10
    index:
      prefix: index_
      period: 168h
    chunks:
      prefix: chunk_
      period: 168h

storage:
  grpc_store:
    # gRPC server address
    server_address: localhost:6666
```

## Community plugins

> For reference these are the gRPC based chunk store implementation for Mongo and Mysql:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list shows Cortex storage plugins built and shared by the community:
```
